README.md, before:

# Release Notes Dialog

An easy to use release notes dialog. Customizable to fit your apps design.

<img src="https://github.com/JakobMick/release_notes_dialog/blob/main/README_example_screenshot.jpg?raw=true" width="256">

## Installation

In your pubspec.yaml:

```dart
dependencies:
    release_notes_dialog: "^1.2.0"
```

In your .dart file:

```dart
import 'package:release_notes_dialog/release_notes_dialog.dart';
```

## Basic Usage

The ReleaseNotesDialog requires a list of releases. A release needs a version number and contains a list of sublists. Sublists are used to group your changes, for example features, bug fixes, improvements, other.

Create a list of releases:

```dart
final List<Release> releases = [
  Release(
    "1.1.0",
    [
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Features",
        changes: [
          "Added new feature 1",
          "Added new feature 2",
        ],
      ),
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Fixes",
        changes: [
          "Fixed bug 1",
          "Fixed bug 2",
          "Fixed bug 3",
        ],
      ),
    ],
  ),
  Release(
    "1.0.0",
    [
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Release!",
      ),
    ],
  ),
];
```

Show the dialog:

```dart
ElevatedButton(
    onPressed: () => showDialog(
        context: context,
        builder: (BuildContext context) {
          return ReleaseNotesDialog(releases: releases);
        }),
    child: Text("Show Dialog"),
);
```

## API

### Release Notes Dialog

| Type               | Property                         | Default                                                                                            | Description                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Key                | key                              | NULL                                                                                               | Controls how one widget replaces another widget in the tree.                                                                           |
| List<Release>      | releases                         | RQUIRED                                                                                            | The list of releases.                                                                                                                  |
| String             | title                            | 'Release Notes'                                                                                    | The title of the dialog                                                                                                                |
| String             | closeButtonString                | 'Close'                                                                                            | The text on the close button                                                                                                           |
| **Dialog:**        |                                  |                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                        |
| double             | width                            | mediaQuery.size.width \* 0.75                                                                      | The width of the dialog.                                                                                                               |
| double             | height                           | mediaQuery.size.height \* 0.75                                                                     | The height of the dialog.                                                                                                              |
| Color              | backgroundColor                  | ThemeData.dialogBackgroundColor                                                                    | The background color of the surface of this Dialog.                                                                                    |
| double             | elevation                        | DialogTheme.elevation                                                                              | The z-coordinate of this dialog.                                                                                                       |
| ShapeBorder        | shape                            | RoundedRectangleBorder with a radius of 4.0                                                        | The shape of this dialog's border.                                                                                                     |
| String             | semanticLabel                    | 'Release Notes'                                                                                    | The semantic label of the dialog used by accessibility frameworks to announce screen transitions when the dialog is opened and closed. |
| **Content:**       |                                  |                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                        |
| EdgeInsetsGeometry | titlePadding                     | const EdgeInsets.fromLTRB(24.0, 24.0, 24.0, 0.0)                                                   | Padding around the title.                                                                                                              |
| EdgeInsetsGeometry | contentPadding                   | const EdgeInsets.fromLTRB(24.0, 20.0, 24.0, 0.0)                                                   | Padding around the content.                                                                                                            |
| double             | paddingBetweenReleases           | 32.5                                                                                               | Padding between releases.                                                                                                              |
| double             | paddingBeneathVersionNumber      | 12.5                                                                                               | Padding beneath release version numbers.                                                                                               |
| double             | paddingBetweenReleaseSublists    | 10.0                                                                                               | Padding beneath release sublists.                                                                                                      |
| double             | paddingBeneathReleaseSublistName | 5.0                                                                                                | Padding beneath release sublist names.                                                                                                 |
| double             | paddingBetweenChanges            | 0.0                                                                                                | Padding between changes.                                                                                                               |
| TextStyle          | titleTextStyle                   | dialogTheme.titleTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.headlineMedium                                       | Style for the text in the title of this AlertDialog.                                                                                   |
| TextStyle          | versionNumberTextStyle           | theme.textTheme.titleMedium                                                                        | Style for the version numbers.                                                                                                         |
| TextStyle          | releaseSublistNameTextStyle      | theme.textTheme.titleSmall                                                                         | Style for release sublist names.                                                                                                       |
| TextStyle          | changeTextStyle                  | dialogTheme.contentTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.bodyMedium                                         | Style for changes.                                                                                                                     |
| TextStyle          | closeButtonTextStyle             | dialogTheme.contentTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.bodyMedium                                         | Style for the close button.                                                                                                            |

### Release

| Type                 | Property      | Default  | Description                         |
| -------------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------- |
| String               | versionNumber | REQUIRED | The version number of this release. |
| List<ReleaseSublist> | subLists      | REQUIRED | The sublists of this release.       |

### ReleaseSublist

| Type         | Property | Default   | Description                         |
| ------------ | -------- | --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| String       | name     | 'Changes' | The name of this sublist.           |
| List<String> | changes  | const [ ] | The list of changes of this sublist |

## Contributions

Contributions, feature requests and bug reports are welcomed!

Commit message:

release: 1.3.0
* feat: add custom bullets

* feat: improve dialog sizing

* chore: bump sdk constraints

README.md, after:

# Release Notes Dialog

An easy to use release notes dialog. Customizable to fit your apps design.

<img src="https://github.com/JakobMick/release_notes_dialog/blob/main/README_example_screenshot.jpg?raw=true" width="256">

## Installation

In your pubspec.yaml:

```dart
dependencies:
    release_notes_dialog: "^1.2.0"
```

In your .dart file:

```dart
import 'package:release_notes_dialog/release_notes_dialog.dart';
```

## Basic Usage

The ReleaseNotesDialog requires a list of releases. A release needs a version number and contains a list of sublists. Sublists are used to group your changes, for example features, bug fixes, improvements, other.

Create a list of releases:

```dart
final List<Release> releases = [
  Release(
    "1.1.0",
    [
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Features",
        changes: [
          "Added new feature 1",
          "Added new feature 2",
        ],
      ),
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Fixes",
        changes: [
          "Fixed bug 1",
          "Fixed bug 2",
          "Fixed bug 3",
        ],
      ),
    ],
  ),
  Release(
    "1.0.0",
    [
      ReleaseSublist(
        name: "Release!",
      ),
    ],
  ),
];
```

Show the dialog:

```dart
ElevatedButton(
    onPressed: () => showDialog(
        context: context,
        builder: (BuildContext context) {
          return ReleaseNotesDialog(releases: releases);
        }),
    child: Text("Show Dialog"),
);
```

## API

### Release Notes Dialog

| Type               | Property                         | Default                                                                                            | Description                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Key                | key                              | NULL                                                                                               | Controls how one widget replaces another widget in the tree.                                                                           |
| List<Release>      | releases                         | RQUIRED                                                                                            | The list of releases.                                                                                                                  |
| String             | title                            | 'Release Notes'                                                                                    | The title of the dialog                                                                                                                |
| String             | bullet                           | '•'                                                                                                | The bullet used in the dialog.                                                                                                         |
| String             | closeButtonString                | 'Close'                                                                                            | The text on the close button                                                                                                           |
| **Dialog:**        |                                  |                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                        |
| double             | width                            | NULL                                                                                               | The width of the dialog.                                                                                                               |
| double             | height                           | NULL                                                                                               | The height of the dialog.                                                                                                              |
| Color              | backgroundColor                  | ThemeData.dialogBackgroundColor                                                                    | The background color of the surface of this Dialog.                                                                                    |
| double             | elevation                        | DialogTheme.elevation                                                                              | The z-coordinate of this dialog.                                                                                                       |
| ShapeBorder        | shape                            | RoundedRectangleBorder with a radius of 4.0                                                        | The shape of this dialog's border.                                                                                                     |
| String             | semanticLabel                    | 'Release Notes'                                                                                    | The semantic label of the dialog used by accessibility frameworks to announce screen transitions when the dialog is opened and closed. |
| **Content:**       |                                  |                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                        |
| EdgeInsetsGeometry | titlePadding                     | const EdgeInsets.fromLTRB(24.0, 24.0, 24.0, 0.0)                                                   | Padding around the title.                                                                                                              |
| EdgeInsetsGeometry | contentPadding                   | const EdgeInsets.fromLTRB(24.0, 20.0, 24.0, 0.0)                                                   | Padding around the content.                                                                                                            |
| double             | bulletPadding                    | const EdgeInsets.fromLTRB(24.0, 24.0, 24.0, 0.0)                                                   | The padding behind the bullets.                                                                                                        |
| double             | paddingBetweenReleases           | 32.5                                                                                               | Padding between releases.                                                                                                              |
| double             | paddingBeneathVersionNumber      | 12.5                                                                                               | Padding beneath release version numbers.                                                                                               |
| double             | paddingBetweenReleaseSublists    | 10.0                                                                                               | Padding beneath release sublists.                                                                                                      |
| double             | paddingBeneathReleaseSublistName | 5.0                                                                                                | Padding beneath release sublist names.                                                                                                 |
| double             | paddingBetweenChanges            | 0.0                                                                                                | Padding between changes.                                                                                                               |
| TextStyle          | titleTextStyle                   | dialogTheme.titleTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.headlineMedium                                       | Style for the text in the title of this AlertDialog.                                                                                   |
| TextStyle          | versionNumberTextStyle           | theme.textTheme.titleMedium                                                                        | Style for the version numbers.                                                                                                         |
| TextStyle          | releaseSublistNameTextStyle      | theme.textTheme.titleSmall                                                                         | Style for release sublist names.                                                                                                       |
| TextStyle          | changeTextStyle                  | dialogTheme.contentTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.bodyMedium                                         | Style for changes.                                                                                                                     |
| TextStyle          | closeButtonTextStyle             | dialogTheme.contentTextStyle ?? theme.textTheme.bodyMedium                                         | Style for the close button.                                                                                                            |

### Release

| Type                 | Property      | Default  | Description                         |
| -------------------- | ------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------- |
| String               | versionNumber | REQUIRED | The version number of this release. |
| List<ReleaseSublist> | subLists      | REQUIRED | The sublists of this release.       |

### ReleaseSublist

| Type         | Property      | Default   | Description                                                                                                                    |
| ------------ | ------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| String       | name          | 'Changes' | The name of this sublist.                                                                                                      |
| String       | bullet        | NULL      | The bullet used for this ReleaseSublist. If null, the ReleaseNotesDialog's bullet property is used.                            |
| double       | bulletPadding | NULL      | The padding behind the bullets used for this ReleaseSublist. If null, the ReleaseNotesDialog's bulletPadding property is used. |
| List<String> | changes       | const [ ] | The list of changes of this sublist.                                                                                           |

## Contributions

Contributions, feature requests and bug reports are welcomed!
